FINA 3335 Spring 2019
Financial Institutions and Markets Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
University of St. Thomas
Cameron School of Business
1. Course Information
Course Title: Financial Institutions and Mkts Course Section: A
Course Number: FINA 3335 Prerequisites: ECON 1331,ACCT 1341 and MATH 3332
Credit Hours: 3 Semester: Spring 2019
Room: Malloy Hall 012 Time: Mon/Wed 3:10 PM- 4:25 PM
2. Instructor Information
Name: Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
Oﬃce Location: Welder Hall Room 205
Oﬃce Phone: 713-525-3807
Oﬃce Hours: Monday 12:00- 3:00PM; Tuesday 2:00- 4:30PM; Wednesday 1:30- 3:00PM
Email:
c
su@stthom.edu
Where to leave assignments: Blackboard
Emergency contact: Cameron School of Business Oﬃce: 713-525-2100
3. Course Catalog Description
An empirical study of ﬁnancial institutions in the primary, secondary, and lending markets,
and of legal developments in this ﬁeld. The course examines the role of the various ﬁnancial
institutions in the ﬂow of funds through the ﬁnancial markets.
Regardless of the extent of your participation in class discussion, you must solve the end-of-
chapter problems to deepen your knowledge of the concepts covered in this class and to test
how well you have understood the material presented in the chapter. Learning this material
requires practice. Solving the problems is an essential step in the learning process. The types
of problems following each chapter are self-test problems, and mini-cases. The assignments
include problems of each type and also supplemental problems which I have prepared and
posted on Blackboard.
4. Program Learning Goals and Objectives
BBA Learning Goals and Objectives
The Bachelors of Business Administration program has ﬁve goals. When students complete
the BBA degree at the University of St. Thomas:
Goal 1. They will be able to communicate eﬀectively.
Objective 1 Graduates will deliver a compelling oral presentation.
Objective 2 Graduates will demonstrate mastery of communication technology.
Objective 3 Graduates will write professional quality documents.
Goal 2. They will be adept at critical thinking.
Objective 1 Graduates will analyze problems in-depth.
Objective 2 Graduates will evaluate data thoroughly.
Objective 3 Graduates will present feasible solutions for problems.
Goal 3. They will be able to work eﬀectively in teams.
Objective 1 Graduates will work collectively towards team objectives.
1FINA 3335 Spring 2019
Financial Institutions and Markets Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
Objective 2 Graduates will demonstrate professional interpersonal relations with other
team members.
Goal 4. They will be ethical decision makers.
Objective 1 Graduates will recognize the ethical issues implicit in a business situation.
Objective 2 Graduates will describe and use ethical frameworks applicable to business
situations.
Goal 5. They will be knowledgeable about fundamental business issues and processes.
5. Course Learning Objectives
Upon completion of this course, students are expected to:
(a) Communicate eﬀectively by preparing ﬁnancial projects and reports that can be used to
aid ﬁnancial decision makers (BBA Goal #1)
(b) Understand the latest developments in functions, structure, and regulation of the ﬁnan-
cial system, and use this knowledge to formulate optimal ﬁnancial decisions for business
ﬁrms (BBA Goal #2).
(c) Recognize the strategic importance of monetary policy for a sound economic and ﬁnancial
environment, and use the expected actions of monetary authorities to plan appropriate
production, employment, and investment decisions for business ﬁrms (BBA Goal #5).
6. Texts, Readings, Materials
Textbook:
Financial Markets and Institutions, Pearson, 9
th
Edition
By Mishkin and Eakins; ISBN-13: 978-0-13-451926-5
Financial Calculator: Texas Instruments BA II Plus (This is the suggested brand/model.)
1
Supplementary Readings: The Wall Street Journal, The Economist, Business Week, and
Fortune magazines. I would like to encourage you to read business press outside the class.
It will help you to relate topics covered in class to the real business world and enhance your
class performance.
7. Instructional Methods
Class time will be devoted to lecture, discussion, and analysis of assigned problems. Finance is
a subject highly problem oriented. Therefore, problems will constitute the largest number of
points for each exam. Assigned problems will be given on a weekly basis. Active participation
in class is encouraged and required. You will also be assigned a team project throughout the
semester.
8. Technology
Students are expected to be able to perform the following:
(a) Online data retrieval and/or research
(b) Online communication or collaboration
(c) Use of general productivity software (e.g. Microsoft Oﬃce) to complete assignments
(d) Use of a ﬁnancial calculator to perform the analyses
1
I will be using BA II Plus for classroom demonstrations. If you use a diﬀerent calculator make sure you have the
manual, so that you may learn how to use it on your own or you can “google” instructions on how to use it.
2FINA 3335 Spring 2019
Financial Institutions and Markets Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
(e) Use of BlackBoard learning platform
(f) IT itself is the subject matter of assignment
9. Course Tentative Schedule
2
The weekly coverage might change as it depends on the progress of the class. However, you
must keep up with the reading assignments.
Week Content
• Jan 14 : Introduction to the class
Week 1
• Jan 16 : Chapter 1- Why Study Financial Markets and Institutions?
• Jan 21 : Martin Luther King Day- No Class
Week 2
• Jan 23 : Chapter 2- Overview of Financial System; Assignment 1 due
• Jan 28 : Chapter 2- Overview of Financial System; Assignment 2 due
Week 3
• Jan 30 : Chapter 2- Overview of Financial System
• Feb 4 : Chapter 9- Central Banks and the Federal Reserve System; Assignment
Week 4
3 due
• Feb 6 : Chapter 9- Central Banks and the Federal Reserve System
• Feb 11 : Chapter 10- Conduct of Monetary Policy; Assignment 4 due
Week 5
• Feb 13 : Chapter 10- Conduct of Monetary Policy
• Feb 18 : Chapter 10- Conduct of Monetary Policy; Assignment 5 due
Week 6
• Feb 20 : Guest Speaker from Fed.
• Feb 25 : Alumni Week- Alumni Visit
Week 7
• Feb 27 : Chapter 10- Conduct of Monetary Policy
• Mar 4 : Review for Midterm Exam
Week 8
• Mar 6 : Midterm Exam
• Mar 11 : Spring Break- No Class
Week 9
• Mar 13 : Spring Break- No Class
• Mar 18 : Midterm Exam Solutions; Chapter 8- Financial Crisis
Week 10
• Mar 20 : Chapter 8- Financial Crisis
• Mar 25 : Chapter 3- The Role of Interest Rates; Assignment 7 due
Week 11
• Mar 27 : Chapter 3- The Role of Interest Rates
• Apr 1 : Chapter 3- The Role of Interest Rates; Assignment 8 due
Week 12
• Apr 3 : Chapter 12- The Bond Market
• Apr 8 : Chapter 12- The Bond Market; Assignment 9 due
Week 13
• Apr 10 : Chapter 14- The Mortgage Markets
• Apr 15 : Chapter 14- The Mortgage Markets
Week 14
• Apr 17 : Chapter 14- The Mortgage Markets
• Apr 22 : Chapter 21- Insurance Companies and Pension Funds; HW 10 due
Week 15
• Apr 24 : Chapter 21- Insurance Companies and Pension Funds
2
The above schedule and procedures in this course are tentative and subject to change.
3FINA 3335 Spring 2019
Financial Institutions and Markets Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
Week Content
• Apr 29 : Chapter 21- Insurance Companies and Pension Funds; HW 11 due
Week 16
• May 1 : Review for Final Exam
Week 17
• May 6 : Final Exam @ 3:00- 5:00 PM.
10. Course Policies
• Readings
Students should prepare for ALL regular scheduled classes prior to class meetings and
are responsible for all of the material discussed in class, assigned in the readings, and
problems assigned for homework regardless of your attendance status.
• Individual Assignments
Homework will be assigned on a weekly basis over Blackboard. Assignment will assigned
on Wednesdays and will be due by the following Monday at 3:00 PM (before the next
Monday class). Late submission will not be accepted.
• Group Assignments
Students need to form the group of 4-5 people. Students will need to come up with 4-5
questions to ask the guest speaker from Federal Reserve before the guest speaker visit.
After the guest speaker speech, each group at least need to raise one question and write a
group report about what you learned from the guest speaker. Details will be announced
later in the semester.
• Quizzes
Quizzes will be given through out the semester RANDOMLY without prior notiﬁcations.
Quizzes may be given at the beginning, middle, or end of the class and cover the materials
from the same date or from the previous class. Make-up quizzes will not be permitted
unless I am notiﬁed of your absence or lateness on a speciﬁc class date.
• Exams
Make-up exams will not be permitted unless I am notiﬁed of your absence on an exam
before the exam date. Make-up exams from excused absences will be scheduled at a
time mutually agreeable to the instructor and the student.
• Attendance Policy
Attendance is mandatory and expected. Students are expected to arrive on time and
stay in class until the class period ends. If you missed four or more class meetings, your
course grade, at the instructor’s discretion, will be reduced by one letter grade. If you
missed more than six classes (including exam dates), at the instructor’s discretion, the
grade will automatically become an F. If you are late for more than 20 minutes in a class
meeting, then it will be counted as “Late”. 2 “Late” will be counted as 1 absence.
• Class Communication
Major class announcements will be made through Blackboard with email notiﬁcations.
Online discussions can also be established on Blackboard. So please check the email on
your Blackboard account is correct.
• Small Tasks
In order to (1) bolster the student’s performance in courses in the business school and
(2) better prepare students for their professions and careers after school, faculty in CSB
set aside a small part of the total score in each course for small tasks/workshops. Each
4FINA 3335 Spring 2019
Financial Institutions and Markets Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
student is required to complete a minimum of three (three hours total) workshops. In
doing so, CSB will provide numerous workshops for all students taking CSB courses
(the complete list of workshops is available on Blackboard). As can be seen in the list,
the workshops are being oﬀered by diﬀerent academic support services on campus and
the workshops on computer applications are being oﬀered through an online provider
(
www.lynda.com
).
– Workshops are being oﬀered during the activity period and in the evening on week-
days in the Fall/Spring semester.
– Workshops are also being oﬀered online via Lynda.com through the Houston Public
Library.
– While the students have to complete a minimum number of workshops per semester,
the same workshops could be used for various courses.
– Students need to attend a workshop lasting at least one hour to complete one ac-
tivity. For instance, if a student decides to take a half hour session in an on campus
workshop, she/he then needs to take an additional half hour session on something
else to complete one required activity.
• Student Conduct in a Learning Environment
Membership in the academic community places a special obligation on all members to
preserve an atmosphere conducive to the freedom to teach and to learn. Therefore, it is
the responsibility of each member of this class to maintain a positive learning environ-
ment in which the behavior of any individual does not disrupt the learning opportunities
for others. Students are expected to work, individually and together, to create an atmo-
sphere that is safe, valuing of one another, and open to diverse perspectives. Students
are expected to show courtesy, civility, and respect for one another and for the instructor.
The UST Student Handbook contains important information and expectations that all
students should know, including University policies and the Code of Student Conduct;
these documents are available at
www.stthom.edu/dos
.
It is the responsibility of the individual faculty member to determine, maintain, and
enforce the standards of behavior acceptable to preserving an atmosphere appropriate
for all teaching and learning activities in the course. Students will be warned if their
behavior is evaluated as not meeting the expected standards.
Sanctions for such behavior may include a range of responses from immediate removal
from class (or a student group meeting) to referral to the appropriate academic unit
and/or the Oﬃce of the Dean of Students for review of violations of behavioral standards.
Signiﬁcant and/or continued violations will result in administrative withdrawal from the
course.
11. Class Participation
The following criteria will be used to judge and grade your participation performance:
(a) Content Mastery:
The student makes evident by classroom comments and/or responses to questions, an
understanding of the facts, concepts, and theories presented in the assigned readings.
(b) Communication Skills:
The student informs other students in a clear and constructive manner what he/she
knows. Communication skills include listening to others and understanding what they
5FINA 3335 Spring 2019
Financial Institutions and Markets Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
have said, responding appropriately, asking clear, constructive questions, building on the
ideas of others, etc.
(c) Synthesis/Integration:
The student shows the connections between this material and other material. For ex-
ample, the student could take several ideas from the readings or class discussions and
combine them to produce a new perspective on an issue, or the student could take out-
side materials (personal experience, work experience, other classes etc.) and combine
them to create insights.
(d) Creativity:
The student shows further implications of the material by ﬁnding new ways of articu-
lating or setting the materials, which produce signiﬁcant insights, etc.
(e) Valuing:
The student identiﬁes values inherent to the material and oﬀer rationales based on some
value system.
12. Grading
Individual Assignments 15%
Group Assignments 12%
Quizzes 15%
• Grade Distribution: Midterm Exam 25%
Final Exam 25%
Class Participation 5%
Small Tasks 3%
>= 93.00 A 80.00 - 83.99 B- 67.00 - 69.99 D+
90.00 - 92.99 A- 77.00 - 79.99 C+ 60.00 - 66.99 D
• Letter Grade Distribution:
87.00 - 89.99 B+ 74.00 - 76.99 C <= 59.99 F
84.00 - 86.99 B 70.00 - 83.99 C-
13. Available Support Services
• Tutorial Services Center (TSC)
The tutorial Services Center oﬀers assistance to all current UST students in a variety of
content area, including academic subjects, general concepts, and writing skills. Tutors
are available anytime the center is open. The TSC oﬀers on-site tutoring, online tutoring,
and tutorial workshops. Oﬃce hours and schedules can be found at
http://www.stthom.
edu/public/index.asp?page_ID=100289
. Please contact the center at 713-525-3878 or
t
utoring@stthom.edu
• CSB Tutorials
The Cameron School of Business oﬀers tutoring in business subjects. Please visit
http:
//libguides.stthom.edu/cameron
(under the “CSB Tutorial Services” tab) for the
most current tutorial schedule and available subjects.
• Information Technology Services
The UST IT Solution Center oﬀers assistance with technical issues related to gen-
eral computer issues, software, email, passwords, MyStThom, and blackboard. Man-
uals, contact information, and discounted software and hardware purchase informa-
tion may be found at
http://www.stthom.edu/Offices_and_Services/Information_
Technology/IT_Index.aqf
.
6FINA 3335 Spring 2019
Financial Institutions and Markets Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
The Cameron School of Business at the
University of St. Thomas
Mission Statement
Inspired by the Basilian Father’s motto of Goodness, Discipline and Knowledge, the Cameron
School of Business provides a comprehensive, high quality, ethically oriented business education to
a diverse student body enabling graduates to serve as leaders of faith and character in a global
economy.
Academic Honesty
Ethical conduct is essential to a community of scholars and students searching for truth. Any-
thing less than total commitment to honesty and honorable conduct undermines the eﬀorts of the
entire community. Academic integrity lies at the very heart of any institution of higher learning.
In the Cameron School of Business, students and faculty are expected to commit to a code that
exempliﬁes each individual’s honor and integrity. Any conduct that violates this standard and
betrays the respect of others is a matter of grave concern and, accordingly, is deemed unacceptable.
The tests/ exams will be individual eﬀorts. Student may work together on homework assignments,
but must submit their own assignments.
The penalty for an incident of academic dishonesty is, at the discretion of the professor, either a
mark of zero for the work in question or the grade of F for the course.
Accommodations
It is UST’s goal that learning experiences be as accessible as possible. Should you choose to
disclose a disability, contact your professor and Counseling and Disability Services (C&DS) so that
possible accommodations can be discussed. Accommodations are designed to minimize the impact
of a disability and ensure access to programs for all students with disabilities. C&DS can be reached
at P: 713/525-2169 or 6953, or at
c
ds@stthom.edu.
Any student with a disability requiring accommodations in this course is encouraged to contact me
(the professor) after class or during oﬃce hours. Additionally, students will need to contact Coun-
seling and Disability Services in Crooker Center. This oﬃce can be reached at P: 713/525-2169 or
6953 or at
c
ds@stthom.edu.
If you have a documented disability that will impact your work in this class, please contact me (the
professor) to discuss your needs. Additionally, you will need to register with the Counseling and
Disability Services Oﬃce in Crooker Center. This oﬃce can be reached at P: 713/525-2169 or 6953
or at
c
ds@stthom.edu.
7FINA 3335 Spring 2019
Financial Institutions and Markets Chih-Huei (Debby) Su, Ph.D., CFA
Resolution of Academic Concerns:
The Cameron School of Business at University of St. Thomas is committed to helping each student
reach his or her full academic potential.
In case of any questions or concerns related to a course, students should ﬁrst meet with the instruc-
tor to request for help. If the student needs assistance to contact the instructor, he or she may
contact the Cameron School of Business oﬃce, P: 713/525-2100 or email
c
sbaction@stthom.edu.
If the student has additional concerns after consulting with the instructor, student should then
contact the Chair of the Department:
Marketing & Management Chair Dr. Elham Mousavidin P: 713/525-5914, Email:
M
ousave@stthom.edu
Economics & Finance Chair Dr. Joe Ueng P: 713/525-2114, Email:
u
eng@stthom.edu
Accounting Chair Dr. John Leavins P: 713/942-3479, Email:
l
eavinj@stthom.edu
Finally, if the student cannot consult the Department Chair or concerns still remain, the student
may contact the Associate Dean, Dr. Ramaswamy P: 713/525-6913, Email:
V
initar@stthom.edu, to
determine a solution. Any remaining concerns should be directed to the Dean, Dr. Beena George
P: 713/525-2100, Email:
V
initar@stthom.edu, for resolution.
If concerns still remain, then the student may contact the Oﬃce of the Dean of Students P: 713/525-
3570, Email:
D
eanOfStudents@stthom.edu.
8